---
title: 雅思口语
date: 2021-06-15 09:23:00
tags: 课程笔记
mathjax: true
---

# Paraphrase

## like/ dislike

- love 
  enjoy 
- be (not) interested in 
  be fond of
  be keen on 
- be a big/huge fan of
- be (extremely/quite/not so) into: 
  I’m extremely into comedies. /I’m not so into sports. 
- Find…adj. (interesting/intriguing; dull and boring): 
  I find comedies very interesting/boring.  Personally, I find his class dull and boring. 
- can’t tolerate/stand/bear/put up with …: 
  That boy was so noisy that I couldn’t tolerate him anymore.
- …is not really my cup of tea/my thing: 
  Singing is not really my cup of tea.

## prefer to

- have a preference for
- would rather do sth. 
- be more into 
- find …more comfortable
- …appeal to me more.  

## 原因：because ----cuz/cos

- as 因为: As I’m not familiar with this place, I always get lost/lose my way.
- since： I’m very sleepy since I stayed up (late) 熬夜 last night.
- due to/because of + noun phrases:
  e.g. The game was cancelled due to the rain.
- The reason is that …
- Here is the reason. …
- The reason why …is that…

## 并列观点衔接：and
also
plus 此外
besides
what else
what’s more
in addition
apart from that
on top of that 此外

## important 

- significant/key/crucial/essential/vital/necessary/valuable
- play a significant role in ….
- the importance of …
- be of great importance/significance/value: 
  e.g. Keeping a balanced diet is of great importance. 
  working out on a regular basis is of great value.
- verb: matter a lot (to sb.)
  e.g. it matters a lot to me. 
  in my opinion, being honest/honesty matters a lot. 
- mean a lot to sb.
  mean everything to sb.
  Children mean everything to their parents. 
- 是不可或缺的：be an indispensable/integral part of …
  I can’t imagine my life without it.
## feel happy

I feel very happy.
I feel on top of the world.
I'm over the moon.

## Frequency ---adverbs of frequency

- once a week
  twice a week
  three times a week
  every day=on a daily basis
  regularly= on a regular basis 
- always 
  usually
  often 
  frequently
  sometimes 
  有时： from time to time/every now and then 偶尔；时不时地
  seldom
  never
- once in a blue moon 极少情况下
- 大多数情况下
  in most circumstances 
  in most cases

# 语法多样性：

## 虚拟语气 （和现实相反的假设）

- form： if +一般过去时， would/could (not) do sth. 
  If science didn’t exist, the world would become very different. 
- 简化： without sth, would/could (not) do sth. 
  without science, the world would just be so different. 
  without history, we wouldn’t be able to draw lessons from the past. 
  Without free time, we wouldn’t be able to chill out or recharge our batteries.
-  I wish (that) +一般过去时
  I wish I were/was a boy.
  I wish I could fly. 
  I wish I had more leisure time.

# 连接术

## 对比结构：

- Compared with A, B…
- In comparison to A，B…
- (not) as …As…
- Unlike A, B…

## Discourse markers: 语篇标记
- you know/see
- I mean: He’s influenced me a lot. I mean, he’s taught me how to be a man of integrity. 正直的人
- to be honest with you/honestly speaking
- Frankly speaking 坦率地说
- generally speaking/in general/by and large 总得来说
- Personally speaking/As for me
- I’d say (I would say): I’d say history is very boring.
- I must admit承认： I must admit history is very important.
- in fact/actually/as a matter of fact…
- to be honest with you/honestly speaking
- What else, it’s worth mentioning that 值得一提的是

## Fillers： 话隙填空话术：

- 万能理由：is a good way for me to relax/unwind放松/chill out/let my hair down.Actually, I’ve never thought about it before. 
- To be honest with you, it’s pretty hard to say. 很难说But I guess…
- That’s a tough question. let me think.

## Introduce your opinion:

- I think/guess/believe/suppose/reckon 认为
- in my opinion/view 
- the way I see it
- to my mind

# Topics

## Hometown

Shanghai is a big city/metropolis.
I’ve been living in a spacious 宽敞的/cramped 狭小的apartment for over 10 years.
located in the city center

## Study

- Department of Photonics
  Electro-Optical Engineering
- I wish my college teachers could be better at teaching. 
- although they are expert in their own field, they just don’t know how to impart knowledge to the students.
- find it hard to digest the things (that) they told us.
- attend classes 

## Flowers

- peony- fortune/elegance 
  lotus – innocence & integrity
  cherry blossom
  roses
  coronation 康乃馨 - final piety 孝心
- a bunch of flowers
- fragrant 香的 
- smell good

## Food

meat overcooked

## Wallet

- Online payment
  Alipay/pay pal
## People

- 闺蜜 Besties
- 分人群讨论
  It depends. 视情况而定
  As for Group A, …
  However, when it comes to Group B就…而言
  - age: children/the youth /the elderly/adults/adolescents/teenagers/the middle-aged
  - gender: females/males/men/women
  - occupation: white collars白领/office workers/blue collars/teachers …
  - location: people who live in the countryside/city dwellers居住者
  - $: people who have a relatively low income/the rich/the wealthy
- 加量词 ➡️ 更客观
  in general/generally speaking 
  most/a large number of/the majority of 
  some/a lot of/many …

## Festivals

- mark the day
- Dragon boat festival ---rice dumplings ---in memory of a great ancient poet named …
Spring festival ---- set off fireworks / watch spring festival gala 盛会
- which is very appealing to me.

## Getting up

- I always stay up.
- sleep in睡懒觉
  have a lie-in 睡懒觉
- Idiomatic language:
  early bird/riser: I wouldn’t say I’m an early bird. 
  night owl: As I’m a typical night owl, I tend to sleep in/have a lie-in.

## Museum

- figure it out
- history 
  history buff 历史爱好者
- archaeological artifacts 
- on display

